hi guys what's up and welcome back to my
channel so today I'm going to take you
down the rabbit hole
that is using an online calorie
calculator we're going to talk about why
it does not work for petite women and
what better alternatives are and maybe
who also would work well for because
maybe you have used an online calorie
calculator and maybe you haven't if you
haven't buckle up because we're gonna
just dive right in I'm gonna screen
share and we're gonna go through the
whole process and find out why it's just
not ideal for us petite so without
further ado let's do it okay so I have
Google pulled up and we're just gonna
jump right into this and go down the
rabbit hole together here we go
all right I'm at Google and I'm just
gonna type in calorie calculator because
say I am trying to figure out how many
calories I should eat in a day and you
know I'm trying to figure this whole
thing out right so we have a calorie
calculator dotnet how many calories
should you eat per day to lose there's
probably a million pages on this this
one's calling to me right now so let's
just go with this one calorie calculator
active okay here we are this looks
promising right use our calorie intake
no that's going use our calorie
calculator to determine your daily
caloric me it's based on your height
ding ding weight age and activity level
in addition to determining the calories
needed to maintain weight use this as a
calorie burner calculator and figure out
how many calories you need to burn in
order to draw pounds okay this sounds
promising so let's calculate chloric
Meads basal metabolic rate so I know
what these are now given how many years
it's been in my experience but they're
talking about tdee which is your total
daily energy exposure expenditure and
basal metabolic rate which is your
metabolism without factoring in your
energy expenditure through your active
lifestyle through Fitness exercise so I
want to know what my basal metabolic
rate is first and then we can calculate
the add in activity level so let's just
go with basal metabolic rate for petite
women this is going to be lower than for
taller people because as you can see
height is gonna play a role so the shore
you are slightly slower metabolism you
have naturally because all of our organs
are smaller and they're using less
energy to stay alive so basically that's
why we have slower metabolisms okay five
one that's me my weight right now is
about 119 pounds and I'm 27 we should do
these
things okay Wow my BMR is 1,400 calories
which is actually surprisingly high for
a petite woman most petite women will
have a BMR of under definitely under
1,500 calories definitely in the low
range metabolisms are slower so what
this means is if you're not active at
all you will have a maintenance calorie
the calories daily calories in of 1400
probably lower again depending on what
your information is here that you put in
put in so if you don't exercise at all
it's already getting really hard to
maintain this because at 1400 calories
that is a small number of calories
compared to a taller person let's look
at what someone who's five let's see
eight they're 130 pounds and they're
will keep the same yeah 15:56 they can
get away with 1600 calories in a day
without adding in any physical activity
that's important and maintain their
weight in fact if they want to diet even
without exercising even without
exercising they can cut it 50 calories
right now 100 calories and do a diet
they would still actually be in a low
range but when we add in our activity
levels you'll see we'll get a boost in
calories because we're exercising we're
expending more we can actually afford to
take in more calories and you'll see how
this comes into play let's switch it
over to clerk needs they're gonna give
us some more things in here probably
activity level yeah so they have only
three tickers there's actually
multipliers for your activity level and
there's probably quite a few more than
just set in very low active or active
I'm gonna put active just because that's
really the only option there is and
we'll calculate okay yeah they use the
highest multiply over that multiplier to
maintain your current weight you need
2238 calories per day with just this
general general activity level of active
with active doesn't give you very good
directions right what does active even
mean should you start increasing your
calories to 2238 oh my god
doubling your calories and just be more
active that doesn't give you very good
guidance let's look at a different one
that has some different metrics and see
if it can help us more very confusing
and now it won't let me leave because
rabbit-hole if it fits your macros
calculator let's see what they can do
for us there'll probably be a little bit
more accurate but you have to understand
that equations are an estimation and the
metabolism which is the process it's not
a thing it's a process of all of the
cellular reactions that are occurring in
your body at a given time and how fast
or slow that rate is it can't be very
accurately estimated by a calculator
especially on an online calculator this
is because there are taking a lot of
generalizations you're high please
rolling your weight your you know your
your age your gender but what they don't
know is what is your body fat percentage
how much muscle do you have if you have
more muscle you're gonna have a faster
metabolism your BMR is gonna be higher
which is why you can change your BMR and
you're not stuck with a low metabolism
slow metabolism of your life you can get
it up through prioritizing strength
training and that's one of the biggest
staples of the small etics method is
getting your metabolism fired up through
gaining more muscle so let's take a look
at what they have going on here all
right so now they have four metrics now
which means they have four multipliers
for your total daily energy expenditure
there just be a little bit more accurate
but still most people way overestimate
their activity activity level let's say
active is a server trainer nurse mostly
standing moving yep that's me very
active I would not say that's me I'm not
lifting for my job I'm lifting as you
know an hour a day so oh good and they
have lifting frequency so let's say for
now let's say let's do say I'm lightly
active because I'm a teacher where I
work an office job let's say up now
let's go full-on I work an office job
this is me April of like seven years ago
sitting at my pharmaceutical job and I
don't lift any weights at all I just do
cardio and I sit all day and I try to
restrict what I'm eating the worst to do
as a busy woman
so I'm sedentary I work out I lift zero
days a week and then I do cardio I was
doing cardio five or six days a week I'm
gonna put I'm gonna put I don't know
five and I was doing sixty minutes let's
put six cuz that's more realistic and my
intensity was like I'm breathing hard
maybe moderate medical diagnosis none
what kind of diet are you eating
standard Western and that I wasn't
really eating bad I was just I was
actually i was eating healthy by what
the grocery store says is healthy which
is not always healthy when things are
labeled healthy doesn't mean they are
necessarily healthy so what's your
biggest struggle I don't know what was
it back then I would say I think it I
thought it was about willpower really my
hormones were out of whack now or maybe
how do I start tracking macros that was
probably something I was thinking like
10 years ago how experienced are you
attracting macros well let's say I'm a
total newb never tracked my calories
where should we send your TDE but send
it - smolitics
okay so alright so this is a snapshot of
me remember about seven eight years ago
not me today if I was doing Corey go
five days a week six days a week
moderate intensity and ice
at my job and I didn't lift weights it's
telling me I should beat about fifteen
sixteen hundred calories to maintain my
current weight so I wouldn't necessarily
see any progress on this journey here
because I'm doing cardio I'm just
burning off I'm not building muscle I'm
not increasing my metabolism the
moderately high calories for a petite
woman this is so low in general for
anyone but for a petite woman 1585 as
higher is because I'm I'm burning so
many calories through cardio however
party was not serving me I'm not
building muscle I'm not getting that
toned look I'm not getting a six-pack
I'm just running myself into the ground
I'm creating a very stressful
environment for my body to live in high
cortisol stress hormones it's not the
best to do cardio because it plays with
our appetite hormones and it makes us
even hungrier which can if you're if
you're eating a restrictive diet
eventually lead to binging and giving in
and then feeling guilty about it which
is horrible and and not sustainable so
this picture and I was probably way
under eating 1585 that would be really
high this is a picture for my old self
let's look at today or if you're not
exercising at all they factored in five
six days of activity so if you're not
exercising at all you're gonna get a
number that's like 1,300 like we saw
before it's 1,200 if you're not lifting
weights if you're not exercising you're
gonna have a really really hard time
reaching your goal of looking toned or
losing weight
you do need to do some form of activity
it doesn't have to be intense it
shouldn't be cardio as a petite woman
but if you can get into lifting weights
just a little bit you're gonna help
really get that metabolism up so that
you can afford to eat more calories and
in that when you have more calories to
eat you can now eat more nutritious
foods to help you build that muscle so
it's a feedback loop of working out
lifting weights and eating nutritious
food nutritious food
and it loops in boosting the metabolism
gaining muscle and it goes in the circle
tell you eventually have that toned body
that you want that you feel good in that
you feel strong and confident that your
clothes fit you well in its this whole
mesh of lifestyle factors not just one
thing so I think that's interesting to
bring up I forget what I was saying
sorry so let's see I don't even know
we're doing now I'm bored with this
calculator let's look at it everyone
basically just calling total attention
to the fact that there's hundreds of
calorie calculators and they're giving
us different results every time and for
petite women they're giving us really
low numbers okay we found another one
let's go ahead and say I'm 27 female my
weight is 119 let's say well I am I am a
dust drought person because it's gonna
be what I do is not the average I'm
exercising let's say not exercising us
petite but I want to lose fat okay this
is what is so alarming about calorie
calculators for petite women oh my god
you guys if it's telling me right now
that if I want to lose body fat I need
to eat 1,000 calories a day let's talk
about why this is not gonna help you um
okay so if you're eating this little in
a day not only are you going to be
ravenously hungry because it is so
little calories but it's gonna slow your
metabolism down because you are eating
in a deficit and you are going to start
losing muscle as well as body fat but
you need muscle present in the body to
keep the metabolism fast so you're
really not helping yourself by dieting
like this on top of that let's look at
if it's hollar person did this so if
it's huller person they have this this
tdee
with her you know whatever exercise they
have factored in and they they can cut
they're at 1,700 colors they can cut 100
eat 1,600 calories still get all the
nutrition they need to build muscle in
the gym and they just have an easier
time but for petite women if we are
trying to be at a thousand calories and
cuts we're trying to cut and we're
cutting 100 calories off we're eating
literally nothing in a day we're not
able to get the nutrition we need to be
healthy individuals to gain muscle to
move forward towards that goal we have
so what do we do what do we do here for
petite women the priority is to gain
muscle you're going to want to start
lifting weights and drop the car do the
cardio is not serving you unless you
love it unless that is your passion and
you freaking enjoy it then then don't
stop doing anything you enjoy but if you
hate cardio there's no reason to do as a
fatty woman besides cardiovascular
health you can do a little bit here and
there but if you lose your mean form of
exercise it's going to be a very
frustrating journey for you
so start lifting weights and stop
dieting because when we diet we restrict
when we restrict we tend to fail at our
diets we tend to not get enough of those
foods we enjoy we eventually just end up
binging and caving into our diet and
that weakens our self-efficacy and our
confidence and our ability to feel good
it's so much more effective to just
start eating all your meals and make
them healthy choices with the foods you
love in moderation something I love is
the 80% 20% role where you eat 20% well
serve 80% of your diet is foods that are
healthy foods that are good for your
metabolism
you know lean proteins chickens ground
beef sirloin like grass-fed beef you can
look at shrimp salmon and building your
meals around a protein so having a
vegetable which is a carbohydrate having
a starchy carbohydrates such as potatoes
and then having your healthy fat so
having cooking with olive oil having
peanut butter or almond butter avocado
eating these balanced meals for each
meal and then when you want have that
piece of chocolate and eat it in
moderation and enjoy it adult restrict
these two things together will help you
so much get to a healthier
and with your mindset and also your
physical results what we really need to
do is petite women is to get away from
these calorie calculators they're
destroying our minds are making us like
about ourselves and look more
towards what we can do to be healthier
forget about these calories stop
restricting and starts to look weights
and start to just feel strong and
powerful and your body so if you guys
have been through this before I want to
know let me know in the comments right
now have you gone down the calorie
calculator rabbit hole like I used to
and what has it led to for you did you
end up restricting yourself do you try
to eat a thousand calories in a day like
what happened for you I really want to
know if you found this video helpful or
just a relief or it lifted your spirits
in any way please support give it a
thumbs up give it a like share it with a
friend
and subscribe for more content tailored
to petite women and I will talk to you
guys really soon have a great wonderful
day bye